@menu
* Command line options::
@end menu

@node Command line options, , , Command-line options
@section Command line options


The following command line options are available for Maxima:

@need 100
@table @code
@need 150
@item -f file, --batch=@var{file}
              Process file in noninteractive mode.

@need 150
@item  --batch-lisp=@var{file}
              Process Lisp file file in noninteractive mode.

@need 150
@item --batch-string=@var{string}
              Process string in noninteractive mode.

@need 150
@item -d, --directories
              Display Maxima directory information.

@need 150
    @item --disable-readline
              Disable readline support.
@need 150
    @item -g, --enable-lisp-debugger
              Enable Lisp debugger.
@need 150
    @item -h, --help
              Display a brief usage summary.
@need 150
    @item --init=string
              Load the Maxima and Lisp initialization files @code{string.mac} and @code{string.lisp} at startup.
@need 150
    @item --init-mac=@var{file}
              Load the Maxima initialization file file at startup.

@need 150
    @item --init-lisp=@var{file}
              Load the Lisp initialization file file at startup.

 @need 150
    @item -l  @var{lisp}, --lisp=@var{lisp}
              Use Lisp implementation lisp. Use @code{--list-avail} to see the list of possible values.

 @need 150
    @item --list-avail
              List the available Lisp and Maxima versions.
@need 150
    @item -p  @var{lisp_file}, --preload-lisp=@var{lisp_file}
              Preload @code{lisp_file}.

 @need 150
    @item -q, --quiet
              Suppress Maxima start-up message.
@need 150
    @item -Q, --quit-on-error
              Quit, and return an exit code 1, when Maxima encounters an error.
@need 150
    @item -r  @var{string}, --run-string=@var{string}
              Process string in interactive mode.

 @need 150
    @item -s  @var{port}, --server=@var{port}
              Connect Maxima to server on port.  Note that this does not create a Maxima server; Maxima is the client.

@need 150
    @item -u  @var{version}, --use-version=@var{version}
              Launch Maxima version version. Use @code{--list-avail} to see the list of possible values.

@need 150
    @item --userdir=@var{directory}
              Use directory for user directory (default is @code{%USERPROFILE%/maxima} for Windows, @code{$HOME/.maxima} for others)

@need 150
    @item -v, --verbose
              Print extra information from the Maxima wrapper script.
@need 150
    @item --version
              Print the (default) installed version.

@need 150
    @item --very-quiet
              Suppress expression labels, the Maxima start-up message, verification of the HTML index and @code{load}-ing related messages.

@need 150
    @item --very-very-quiet
              In addition to @code{--very-quiet}, set @mref{ttyoff} to @code{true} to suppress most printed output.

@need 150
    @item -X  @var{Lisp options}, --lisp-options=@var{Lisp options}
              Options to be given to the underlying Lisp.

@need 150
    @item --no-init, --norc
              Do not load the init file(s) on startup.

@need 150
    @item --no-verify-html-index
              Do not verify on startup that the set of html topics is consistent with text topics.

@end table
